for several decades etg has played a
pivotal role in the global agricultural
supply chain for emerging markets with
offices across 45 countries and a staff
compliment of 7,000 the group procures
at farm gate level provides storage and
warehousing processing and
transportation merchandising and the
distribution of finished commodities
effectively bringing smallholder produce
to the supermarket shelves of the world
over 300 strategically placed rural and
centralized agricultural warehouses and
procurement centers throughout 30
countries form part of ETGs trusted and
reliable logistical and infrastructural
network empowering small holder farmers
to lock into international commodity
markets and achieve best prices more
than 80% of commodities bought directly
from farmers is transported to small
buying centers here they are graded
processed and standardized before being
repackaged by etg for both local and
international export BT G's impressive
network of seasonal procurement centers
and warehouses is designed for the
purchase and storage of raw commodities
close to their point of origin once
sufficient mass is reached the group
uses its feet of trucks to provide
transport is central to exposing
smallholder produce as an aggregate to
an assured market during the 2012
financial year 25 different commodities
representing almost 1.4 million metric
tons were moved between these economies
btg also manufactures and supplies bulk
blended fertilizers as well as providing
farm implements and machinery such as
power tillers tractors and accessories
through strategic decision-making and
continuous investment in the african
continent's infrastructure from
warehousing to port facilities etg has
pioneered the transformation of
subsistence farming to viable farming
activities enjoying global reach to
uplift local communities and empower
small holders to actively participate in
the African
me the group has implemented out Goa
schemes to encourage food production for
global consumption providing input
finance plus agricultural know how to
increase yields at the processing level
etg has created five African branded
product ranges offering quality
controlled cost-effective end products
to the international marketplace the
Falcon range comprises rice fertilizer
and farm implements that are distributed
to all countries with an etg presence
Kuroshio cashew kernels are processed
and packed in Mozambique and Tanzania
and exported to Europe the Middle East
and North America super UEFA is a
branded maize meal manufactured and sold
in Malawi Sieber Foods manufactures an
affordable high-protein soybean
extrusion product called tasty soya
pieces as well as low end full fat soil
plus fortified drinks and as plants in
Ethiopia Uganda Zambia and Malawi
nature's is a line of processed pulses
including green mung beans and chickpeas
manufactured in Malawi Mozambique and
Tanzania and exported globally the group
owns wheat milling and pulse processing
facilities in India where pulses are an
important source of protein for the
predominantly vegetarian local
population etg currently exports between
70 and 85 percent of african originated
pulses to India and plans to expand
regional processing capacity to deliver
a finished product directly to market
China is a primary origination source
for several of ETGs commodities imported
into africa including fertiliser rice
and wheat in Southeast Asia etg has
highlighted Thailand and Vietnam as key
growth destinations for the procurement
and processing of pulses and coffee
beans
in 2012 etg procured and distributed
over six hundred thousand metric tons of
cereals effectively linking 15 source
countries with 22 destination markets
etg procured a variety of beans and peas
such as kidney beans white peas cow peas
and butter beans throughout the
sub-saharan region they are then cleaned
bagged and stored until required for
export or to meet regional demand the
group's oilseed portfolio is composed of
sesame seeds and soy beans which are etg
processed prior to export the group is
the market leader in oil seed
procurement in origination countries
that include Tanzania and Malawi among
others cashews and ground nuts are also
procured directly from small holders
throughout Africa cashew nuts are
processed in etg factories before being
exported while ground nuts are sold raw
to end-users in Asia etg is a new
entrant in the high-value coffee market
through the acquisition of a processing
facility in Uganda the largest of its
kind on the African continent sourcing
coffee from East and West Africa and
parts of Asia the group also trades
black tea sourced primarily in
Mozambique Africa has the world's lowest
levels of fertilizer usage and etg is
one of the continents largest importers
of this critical input the group's
sources supplies from manufacturers in
the Middle East China and Europe and
then distributes across Africa under its
Falcon brand name etg has become a
significant processor with its own bulk
blending plants one managed in Zambia
one built in Byram Assam beak and
another envisaged for Tanzania stock is
sold in large quantities to
institutional clients and in small
quantities to African small holders
through the company's warehouse network
and two-way supply chain model ATG
boosts local employee
by its presence and adds value to local
economies by investing in mid and
downstream agricultural processing
cleaning and packaging businesses the
group currently has 26 such plants
operating in Africa and Asia
transforming commodities into marketable
products for regional and international
distribution with its strong commitment
to investing in corporate social
responsibility projects the group plans
to collaborate further with public and
private sector partnerships in the years
ahead
DT G's vision to harness and unleash the
full capacity and power of the African
agricultural market and other
international emerging markets remains a
primary focus in order to become a
crucial contributor to the world food
market to this end
etg remains committed